---
title: Cambodia
date: 2010-01-14T11:27:46+00:00
author: Chris
layout: post
---
Hello everyone,

We are still in Cambodia at the moment and are off to Vietnam in the morning on a boat ride down the Mekong Delta arriving and spending a night of two in Chau Doc.

In Siem Reap we visited the temples of Angkor which were breath taking. We got up super early and cycled to see the sunrise over Angkor Wat which was fantastic. The only down side to it was that the Guesthouse that we were staying at told us to leave at 4.30am but the sunrise didn&#8217;t actually take place until 6.45 &#8211; 7.00 so we were sat around waiting for quite a while. From there we cycled around a number of the temples (there are millions of them) including Ta Prohm which is the famous Lara Croft/Tomb Raider temple which was also incredible.

The following day we had another early start and got the bus from Siem Reap to Phenom Penh where we are now. That afternoon we  went to see the Royal Palace where there is a life sized solid gold Buddha statue that is covered in more than 2000 diamonds! Equally impressive is the room which has a floor that is made from solid silver tiles meaning that the floor itself wighs in excess of 5 tonnes!

Today we had another cycling adventure and cycled about 20 miles. We went and visited the Killing fields and the Prison where the detainees were kept and tortured before they went to be executed by Pol Pot&#8217;s goons at the killing fields (hence the name i guess). This was a little bit greusome and most definately chilling but we are glad we did it even if we did have a few hairy moments on the bike ride back!

Anyway, dinner time now!

Chris and Katie

xxx